What if I gave you tips so that you
could study faster, remember more, and
still have time to watch your favorite
show? Skip these tips and you'll stay
stuck in that endless loop of cramming
only to get disappointing grades. So
stick around because trust me, the final
tip is the one that separates the top
students from everyone else. Tip one,
trick your brain into studying. Your
brain is lazy. If you give yourself 3
hours to study, it'll take 3 hours,
mostly filled with distractions. This is
called Parkinson's law. Work expands to
fill the time you allow for it. So,
here's the fix. Instead of saying, "I
have to study for hours," tell yourself,
"I'll just do 20 minutes." Your brain
stops resisting because 20 minutes feels
easy, and once you start, you'll
probably keep going. Tip two, learn like
a genius. Einstein once said, "If you
can't explain it simply, you don't
understand it well enough." So, if you
really want to learn fast, try teaching
it. Here's how. First, pretend you're
explaining a topic to a 5-year-old. No
fancy words. Keep it simple. Then,
notice where you get stuck. That's what
you need to relearn. Finally, simplify
it even more. When you do this, you're
not just memorizing, you're
understanding. Tip three, stop
rereading, start testing.
Want to remember things twice as fast?
This method is scientifically proven to
burn information into your brain. Stop
passively rereading your notes. Instead,
use active recall. Close your book and
try to recall key points from memory.
Instead of copying notes, write them
down without looking. You could also use
flashcards, but test yourself instead of
just reading them. Tip four, the timer
trick for instant focus. Ever notice how
you suddenly become super focused right
before a deadline? That's because
urgency creates focus. And you can use
this to your advantage. Here's how. Set
a 30inut timer. Study like it's an
emergency. Take a 5-minut break. Move
around. Stretch or scroll your phone.
Guilt-free. Repeat. Why does this work?
Short study sessions prevent burnout.
Also, your brain stays focused because
it knows a break is coming. At the same
time, you avoid fake studying, just
staring at notes without actually
learning. Tip five, work smarter, not
harder. Stop wasting time. Not
everything you study is equally
important. Some things matter way more
than others. That's why you need the
8020 rule. 80% of your results come from
just 20% of what you study. So, stop
focusing too much on the tiny details.
Instead, ask yourself what will actually
be on the test. Check past exams or ask
your teacher, "What don't I understand
yet?" If you already know something,
move on. A hack from an A+ student.
Start with a practice test before you
even study. That way, you instantly see
which topics come up the most. And
that's where you should focus 80% of
your time. Tip six, the real shortcut to
better learning. You can use every
single study hack invented, but if your
brain can't process the information
properly, it'll disappear just as fast
as it came. And that's the huge mistake
most students make. They focus only on
what they study, but not on how their
brain processes it. The thing is, your
brain doesn't store information while
you're studying. It locks it in while
you sleep. So, what does this mean?
Pulling allnighters before a test, bad
idea. You'll retain way less. getting 7
to 8 hours of sleep. That's when your
brain actually files everything away for
long-term memory. But sleep isn't the
only way your brain processes
information. Exercise plays a huge role,
too. Even a short walk can give your
memory a serious boost. Once you get all
of this right, you won't just learn
faster, you'll actually remember it all.
Tip seven, make it visual. Words are
slippery. Your brain loves pictures way
more than paragraphs. Here's why. Your
brain processes images 60,000 times
faster than text. So next time you
study, don't just read, visualize. Turn
boring lists into colorful mind maps.
Draw little doodles that represent
concepts. Even just imagining a scene in
your mind while you learn makes the
information stick better. When you see
it, you remember it. Tip eight, unlock
hidden memory power with interle.
Most people study one topic over and
over. It feels easy, but that's a trap.
Real learning happens when you mix
things up. This is called interle.
Here's how it works. Instead of
practicing just one type of math problem
20 times, do five of each kind. Instead
of reading one history chapter straight
through, jump between a few topics. At
first, it feels harder, and that's a
good sign. It forces your brain to work
harder, and that's how you lock
knowledge in for real. Tip nine, chunk
it up. Your brain can only hold about
seven pieces of information at once.
That's it. Trying to remember everything
at once. Instant overload. Here's the
fix. Break information into chunks of
group related facts together. For
example, instead of memorizing 10 random
dates separately, group them into three
major events. Or in language learning,
instead of memorizing single words,
memorize useful phrases. Chunks are
easier to remember and they build on
each other like Lego blocks. Tip 10,
talk to yourself. Want a study trick
that feels weird but works? Talk out
loud. It's called self-explanation and
it boosts learning way more than silent
studying. Here's how. After reading a
page, close the book and say out loud
what you just learned. Explain it like
you're teaching an invisible classroom.
If you can't explain it clearly, that's
a sign you need to review. Hearing your
own words forces your brain to organize
the information, and that's where the
real learning happens. Tip 11, master
the twominute bedtime review. You're
missing a huge opportunity if you go to
bed without a quick review. Here's the
move. Right before sleep, spend just 2
minutes recalling what you studied that
day. Close your eyes and mentally walk
through the key points. No notes, no
distractions,
just you and your memory. Why does this
work? Your brain processes memories
during sleep, and whatever you review
right before bed gets VIP treatment.
It's one of the fastest, easiest ways to
supercharge your learning without doing
anything extra the next day. Before you
go, here's your quick cheat sheet for
everything we covered. Tip one, trick
your brain. Promise just 20 minutes to
start. Tip two, teach it simply. If you
can't explain it, you don't really get
it. Tip three, test yourself. Don't
reread. Active recall wins. Tip four,
use timers. Urgency equals instant
focus. Tip five, focus on the 20% that
matters most. Tip six, sleep and
exercise. Your brain upgrades itself
when you rest and move. Tip seven, make
it visual. Turn words into pictures. Tip
eight, mix topics. Interle makes you
smarter, even if it feels harder. Tip
nine, chunk information. Group it so
your brain can handle more. Tip 10, talk
out loud, explain it in your own words.
Tip 11, quick bedtime review. Lock it
into memory right before you sleep. If
you learned even one new trick today,
imagine what happens when you use all of
them. Which tip are you going to try
first? Drop it in the comments. I'd love
to hear. And if you want more brain
hacks like these, don't forget to like,
subscribe, and hit that bell.